theoretical physics, fine-tuning is the process in which parameters of a model must be adjusted very precisely in order to fit with certain observations.fine-tuning consists of the following four steps: Pretrain a neural network model, i.e., the source model, on a source dataset (e.g., the ImageNet dataset). Create a new neural network model, i.e., the target model. This copies all model designs and their parameters on the source model except the output layer.precisely adjusted for the highest level of performance, efficiency, or effectiveness a fine-tuned machine His voice on "Always Late with Your Kisses" rolled along its cordillera of syllables like a fine-tuned sports car.—The initial conditions of the universe, subatomic particles, the Big Bang, the fundamental forces of the universe, the Solar System, the earth and the moon, are finely tuned to permit life. Over 150 fine-tuning parameters are known.Finetuning means taking weights of a trained neural network and use it as initialization for a new model being trained on data from the same domain (often e.g. images). It is used to: speed up the training.Fine Tuning' was Walter Heller's phrase for fiscal and monetary actions by government aimed at countering deviations in aggregate demand — forecast or actual — from some target path of output and associated inflation. The idea marked an important change in doctrine.With fine-tuning, the deep learning neural networks already have most of the data available for the new model from previous ones. Thus, a lot of time and resources are saved when fine-tuning deep learning models is carried out.Applying fine-tuning allows us to utilize pre-trained networks to recognize classes they were not originally trained on. And furthermore, this method can lead to higher accuracy than transfer learning via feature extraction.Technological devices are paradigmatic examples of fine-tuning. Whether they function as intended depends sensitively on parameters that describe the shape, arrangement, and material properties of their constituents, e.g., the constituents' conductivity, elasticity and thermal expansion coefficient.Fine-tuning in NLP refers to the procedure of re-training a pre-trained language model using your own custom data. As a result of the fine-tuning procedure, the weights of the original model are updated to account for the characteristics of the domain data and the task you are interested in.Here we will consider four aspects of fine-tuning.
...
Mating factor activates receptor.
G protein binds GTP and becomes activated.
Phosphorylation cascade activates Fus3, which moves to plasma membrane.
Fus3 phosphorylates formin, activating it.
Formin initiates growth of microfilaments that form the shmoo projections.(music) calibrating something (an instrument or electronic circuit) to a standard frequency.
I could hear the sound of a band tuning up.
The band were tuning up their guitars.
Your piano is flat; it needs tuning.
The tuning on this piano is awful.
After fiddling with the tuning I finally got JFM.well-known topic within the philosophy of physics is the problem of fine-tuning: the fact that the universal constants seem to take non-arbitrary values in order for live to thrive in our Universe.Fine-tuning, an approach of Transfer Learning, we have a dataset, and we use let's say 90% of it in training. Then, we train the same model with the remaining 10%. Usually, we change the learning rate to a smaller one, so it does not have a significant impact on the already adjusted weights.Model Parameters are properties of training data that will learn during the learning process, in the case of deep learning is weight and bias. Parameter is often used as a measure of how well a model is performing.It's as if there are a large number of dials that have to be tuned to within extremely narrow limits for life to be possible in our universe. It is extremely unlikely that this should happen by chance, but much more likely that this should happen, if there is such a person as God.The parameters of a neural network are typically the weights of the connections. In this case, these parameters are learned during the training stage. So, the algorithm itself (and the input data) tunes these parameters. The hyper parameters are typically the learning rate, the batch size or the number of epochs.During pre-training, the model is trained on unlabeled data over different pre-training tasks. For fine-tuning, the BERT model is first initialized with the pre-trained parameters, and all of the parameters are fine-tuned using labeled data from the downstream tasks.Transformers provides access to thousands of pretrained models for a wide range of tasks. When you use a pretrained model, you train it on a dataset specific to your task. This is known as fine-tuning, an incredibly powerful training technique.regulate (a radio or television set) in order to receive a certain station or program.
Be sure to tune in to next week's show.
Tune in to BBC tonight at 9 o'clock.
More than six million youngsters tune in to Blockbusters every day.
Tune in to our exclusive coverage of Wimbledon.
Tune in next week at the same time!The tune-up should also include cleaning or replacing the spark plugs and, on older cars, the distributor cap and rotor. Tune-ups may also include replacement of the fuel filter, oxygen sensor, PCV valve, and spark plug wires. If your vehicle contains platinum spark plugs, they may not need to be changed as frequently.Things That Require Routine Tune-Ups
Air Filter. Driving in areas with heavy traffic requires you to replace air filters more frequently. ... 
Fluids. ... 
Oil and Oil Filter. ... 
Battery. ... 
Belts and Hoses. ... 
Windshield Wipers. ... 
Wheel Bearings and Alignments. ... 
Headlights, Tail lights, Break lights, and Blinkers.Entry 1 of 2) 1a : a pleasing succession of musical tones : melody. b : a dominant theme. 2 : correct musical pitch or consonance —used chiefly in the phrases in tune and out of tune.In theoretical physics, fine-tuning is the process in which parameters of a model must be adjusted very precisely in order to fit with certain observations. This had led to the discovery that the fundamental constants and quantities fall into such an extraordinarily precise range that if it did not, the origin and evolution of conscious agents in the universe would not be permitted.[1]

Theories requiring fine-tuning are regarded as problematic in the absence of a known mechanism to explain why the parameters happen to have precisely the observed values that they return. The heuristic rule that parameters in a fundamental physical theory should not be too fine-tuned is called naturalness.The idea that naturalness will explain fine tuning was brought into question by Nima Arkani-Hamed, a theoretical physicist, in his talk "Why is there a Macroscopic Universe?", a lecture from the mini-series "Multiverse & Fine Tuning" from the "Philosophy of Cosmology" project, a University of Oxford and Cambridge Collaboration 2013. In it he describes how naturalness has usually provided a solution to problems in physics; and that it had usually done so earlier than expected. However, in addressing the problem of the cosmological constant, naturalness has failed to provide an explanation though it would have been expected to have done so a long time ago.

The necessity of fine-tuning leads to various problems that do not show that the theories are incorrect, in the sense of falsifying observations, but nevertheless suggest that a piece of the story is missing. For example, the cosmological constant problem (why is the cosmological constant so small?); the hierarchy problem; and the strong CP problem, among others.

Also, Dongshan He's team has suggested a possible solution for the fine tuned Cosmological constant by the universe creation from nothing model.An example of a fine-tuning problem considered by the scientific community to have a plausible "natural" solution is the cosmological flatness problem, which is solved if inflationary theory is correct: inflation forces the universe to become very flat, answering the question of why the universe is today observed to be flat to such a high degree.
